## Arcane Magic
> *Lighting arcs from a Cursed child's fingertips as energy from another dimension courses through his veins. "Mere pests" the voice whispers "I will keep you safe, my child."
> 
> An older man is surrounded by notes written in made-up languages and mathematical calculations fraught with error. After a seemingly crazed hand motion and whispered invocation of his own design, the pistol in front of the man begins to levitate.* 

- Arcane Magic came into existence on Earth after the magnetic poles flipped during [[Calamity (The Calamity)]], and the first [Starfolk](../Mutant%20Races/Starfolk.md) were born. Anyone can cast arcane magic by attuning themselves to [[The Flux]], an energetic force underlying all things, which became accessible to sentient beings after [[The Flip]]. [Cursed](../Mutant%20Races/Cursed.md) and [Starfolk](../Mutant%20Races/Starfolk.md) children alike would soon find themselves possessing an affinity for this magic from an early age. 
- Innate and natural users (Sorcerers, Warlocks, Eldritch Knight) of The Flux often complain of horrible nightmares and whispering voices, but well-trained innate users and those who learn through intense study (Wizards, Artificers, Arcane Trickster) do not report these symptoms or relate to the deeply held mysticism about The Flux.
- Studied users (Wizards, Artificers, Arcane Trickster) attempt to form a logical understanding of The Flux. These understandings and theories vary vastly from user-to-user but the various methods revealed by those who engage in the scholarship to discover them seem to work well, but only for the scholar who discovers them.
- The logic of the Flux seems to be in superposition between structure and chaos. A rare few are able to maintain a grasp on it. As such, it's rules and structure can not be taught, as they will be different for each person to embark on this journey.
## Divine Magic
> *At the end of the world, the Power of Belief multiplied in strength. Maybe it was the desperate prayers of our dying race, or maybe it was the emergence of The Flux, but humanity found itself once-again in the company of the long-forgotten everyday miracle practitioners that it at one point relied on.*

- For all of human history, Faith has been a powerful weapon. Most historians dismiss accounts of miracles from early history as nonsense or non-literal representations, after all, all of these faiths couldn't be true at the same time. However, in times of great need, Divine Magic does in fact manifests through the songs, prayer, discipline, and sacred rites of magic users like Clerics, Rangers, Monks, and Bards. There has been no greater time of need than The Carbon Age.
- Divine Magic can manifest from any faith, as long as the user has a strong sincere belief in their tenants and feels a divine connection to their source of magic. A guitar player who believes greatly in the power of music, may find their songs to be a source of physical healing as well as emotional. A sunday school teacher's prayers for safety will seem to be answeed. A former park ranger's whispered plea to Nature will manifest a divine instinct towards safety.
- While some dismiss the possibility of miracles and the divine, most people are either desperate or experienced enough to believe otherwise.
