### July 1984
- [[Super-Typhoons]] move inland, devastating coastlines in the [[United States]]. Mass blackouts cause riots and looting. Key military bases fall, including the [[Pentagon]], and D.C. is wiped off of the East Coast. The United State's official federal government is wiped out, with emergency remnants struggling to hold individual states together. The [[Calamity (The Calamity)](Calamity%20(The%20Calamity).md) begins.
- After the Pentagon is destroyed, Ronald Reagan reflexively orders a high-yield [[../Petrochems/Carbodiesel.md]] strike across the Chinese mainland, dooming all but the safest and most secure members of the nation.
- Most Latin American nations collapse during this stage of the [[Calamity (The Calamity)](Calamity%20(The%20Calamity).md). [[Mexico]], propped up by united cartel-tribes, manages to survive as a large scale multi-tribal government known as the [[Legion of Mexico]].
- Massive, partially melted glaciers in Canada give way, devastating nearby towns with falling ice, and destroying key infrastructure. Raider tribes begin to take hold in many areas of Canada.

### August 1984
- The majority of individual State governments collapse without federal funding. Large scale looting and gang violence overwhelm most local governments. The U.S. is officially considered destroyed by other international governments.
- Canada successfully reforms, reduces, and scales down their government in preparation for an apocalypse. The [[Post-Canadian Union]] is born.
- The [[U.K.]] collapses after the last remaining portion of the island is brought under water.
- The [[E.U.]] disbands, declaring itself an unnecessary strain on member nations in this emergency, who are all struggling to survive themselves.
### October 1984
- The remaining citizens of [[China]], all favored party members, are able to evacuate to the Moon in [[../Petrochems/Hydromethane.md]]-powered shuttles to one of the nations bases, in a mission known as [[Operation: Rapture]].
- The [[USSR]] collapses, save for it's Artic components, whose settlements establish a limited shared government known as [[The Alliance]], under the [[Artic Accords]]. 

### November 1984
- None of the remaining governments on Earth exist in the same form as before. All have been destroyed, fractured, or reformed entirely beyond recognition.

### December 1984
- The geological, magnetic, and meteorological events that caused the calamity cease. Humanity's Golden Age has ended, and The Carbon Age has begun.